Family, I'm gonna ask you all to grab your Bibles.
We're in this sermon series of battle ready.
Grab your swords, grab the word of God, and we're gonna go and open it in Deuteronomy chapter 18 verse nine, and we're gonna read a couple of verses.
And I'm gonna ask you to do this once you're there.
Once you're in Deuteronomy chapter 18 verse nine.
Scream amen at me that way I know that we're ready.
Praise God, come on.
It says in the following, for the honor and glory of God, a call to holy living.
When you enter the land, the Lord your God has given you, be very careful not to imitate the detestable customs of the nations living there.
For example, never sacrifice your son or daughter as a burnt offering and do not let your people practice fortune telling or use sorcery or interpret omens
or engage in witchcraft, or cast spells, or function as mediums or psychics, or call forth the spirits of the dead.
Anyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord.
It is because the other nations have done these detestable things that the Lord your God will drive them out ahead of you.
But you must be blameless before the Lord your God.
The nations, you are about to displace
Consortiumers and fortune tellers, but the Lord your God forbids you to do such things.
Amen?
Family, can we do this?
Can we pray?
Father, we come before you in the precious name of your son, Jesus Christ.
And first, we give you thanks.
Thank you for another day of life.
Thank you, Father, that we are in your presence.
I pray, God, that you would use this word, this message, to impact our lives.
to transform our lives.
Teach us, Holy Spirit, to love what you love.
Teach us to also hate what you hate.
Help us to set aside the things that break our hearts for the things that break your heart.
And I pray, Holy Spirit, that your fruit would be cultivated even more in every single one here.
And we bear more of the character of Jesus Christ.
It's this we pray,
in the name, that's above all name, in the name of Jesus.
And everyone in agreement said, amen.
So my family, we've been in this sermon series of battle ready.
And I'm gonna start a little bit backwards today, being that we place this scripture in consideration.
It talks about horoscopes.
It talks about fortune telling.
It talks about witchcraft.
But tonight, we're not gonna start with the problem.
We're not gonna start with the horoscopes.
We're not gonna start with the witchcraft.
We're gonna start with this truth.
And that is some of us are exhausted because we're trying to do God's job.
And what do I mean by that?
We're trying to manage outcomes.
We're trying to manage our future.
We're trying to read every sign, trying to keep everyone happy, trying to make sure nothing falls apart.
And because of that, you're tired because you were never built to carry sovereignty.
There's only one throne.
and it belongs to God.
And some of us need to get our butts off that chair.
And this is the wild thing.
Some of us don't realize that we're doing this.
Let me take you back to Genesis chapter three.
The serpent doesn't tell Adam and Eve, go and sin.
Go crazy.
He says this, you will be like God.
That's the hook.
Certainty, comfort,
control, autonomy, self-rule, and humanity has been fighting this same battle since the beginning of time.
You know what's interesting?
Have you ever noticed this, that trials don't test your character, they test your faith?
Faith is a relational term, fundamentally, it's a foundational term at its foundation.
And the question becomes, whom do you trust?
Each and every single one of us fight a battle.
And at the end of the battle, at the end, when the smoke is cleared, the same question still stands.
Who will you trust?
Will you trust the devil?
Will you trust your understanding?
Will you trust your gut?
Or will you trust God?
Amen.
And we have scriptures that say this.
Do not lean in your own understanding.
So why is it that many of us have this attitude of, God, I trust you, but not this part of my life?
God, you can run the universe, but I'll run my future.
What about this one, my favorite one?
God, sit in the passenger seat, I'll drive.
And here in Albuquerque, can I tell you some of you need to let God take the wheel, bro.
I've gotten so many birds in these last couple of days, geez.
But family, you can't say you trust God while you still micromanage His hand.
And I'll tell you the reason why.
I'll tell you where it stems.
It stems and it creates stress.
At the very core, it's control.
We don't trust God.
And that causes stress in your life.
And the stress that you're experiencing in your life
is caused of you trying to hold on to the steering wheel.
And you're holding on to something you were never meant to touch.
And I'll tell you this, control is humanity's favorite.
Check this out, idol.
Control.
Not money.
Not fame.
Control.
Why?
Because if I control it, I don't have to trust.
Let me share with you this story.
My family and I went to Rio Delso on vacation.
And we found this beautiful spot that had an indoor pool.
And one of my daughters goes up to me and she says, Daddy, I want to learn how to swim.
And I said, OK, baby.
Automatically, I thought to myself, I'm not going to teach you the way my dad taught me.
Which was like, throw your hands this way and figure it out.
You're going to learn how to float.
I learned how to float, dad, not swim.
Well, as a recovering from trauma, dad, I took floaties, right?
I took floaties.
I was safe, and I thought to myself, this is gonna be great.
So we put the floaties on, and before we even start family, I grab my daughter from the face, and I tell her, honey, do you trust me?
And with her big old BDI, she says, yeah daddy, I trust you?
I said, look baby, you know I would never do anything to hurt you, right?
She says, right.
I said, okay, I'm going to walk you through the plan.
You have the floaties and we're going to get in the area where it's like two and a half feet, three feet.
And so that you can get accustomed to floating.
I'm going to grab you and add a point.
I'm going to let you go so that you can float by yourself.
Sounds good.
She said, sounds good.
Till there we're good.
Execution.
We attend, said, pool, right?
And it's packed.
There's a lot of people, there's a lot of kids.
And sure enough, we're doing our plan, put the floaties on, and I grab her from her little waist, and I tell her, honey, I'm about to let you go, okay?
And you can see the fear in her eyes.
And as I slowly let go, she grabs my hands, right?
And now we're fighting, because I'm trying to push away, and she's trying to like hook me,
Like this?
She's freaking out.
And so now I'm holding my baby like this in the pool, and she's grabbed onto both my fingers, my index fingers.
And she's saying, Daddy, don't let me go.
Daddy, don't let me go.
And as a responsible adult, I blicked her fingers off.
And she started screaming off the top of her little lungs.
She started screaming, bloody murder.
Now everyone in the pool, all their attention has gone from fun to this little beautiful girl, freaking out.
I hear comments like, great job, dad, dad of the year award.
Look at this guy, right?
Look at this guy.
So my daughter, Frantic, for a whole minute, and that minute felt like an eternity.
After the full minute, guess what happened?
She started with tears in her, and I mean ugly tears, bro, like mocha and everything, right?
And she's like, she's like, whoa.
Look, Daddy, look, Daddy, I'm floating.
Look.
And I said, right, baby, look, I told you, I'm so proud of you.
Thank you for trusting me.
And right in that moment, the Holy Spirit gives me this thought.
And he tells me this, that's you every time I ask you to trust me.
It is impossible to please God without faith.
It is impossible to please God without trust.
So here's the message.
Whatever it is that you're going through right now, not yesterday, right now,
Trust Him.
If you feel like you're about to drown, trust Him.
If you feel like everything's crashing down, trust Him.
He has a hold of you.
Amen.
Family, now this is where it gets difficult.
We say we want faith, but in reality, right?
We want certainty.
Because certainty feels better than faith.
Certainty feels better than trust.
gives us the idea because we want to know.
We want to know.
How many of you have been okay with someone telling you the end of a movie or a book?
Spoiler alert, and they'll tell you at the beginning, you're like, I don't care, I just want to know.
Not everybody's like that.
But maybe it's not a movie, maybe it isn't a book.
What about a relationship?
What about a marriage?
What about a job opportunity?
What about a diagnosis?
We wanna know.
We wanna know if the relationship will work.
We wanna know if the diagnosis is serious.
We wanna know if the job will come through.
We wanna know how about this one?
If we made the right decision, anybody?
Come on, just me?
Come on.
We wanna know, we want certainty.
This is what happens when certainty shows up, anxiety shows up, and when anxiety shows up, control starts looking holy.
That's why culture is exploding with spiritual shortcuts.
That's why this culture is telling you, look at this horoscope, come look at the psychics, get a reading from these tarot cards, look at this manifestation or crystals, energy alignment.
It's crazy to me that people will sleep with a rock under their pillow and call it peace.
It's crazy to me that some people will even say, well, preacher, I'll just grab a, it's harmless.
I just grab a couple of beans and I throw them in a certain way and based on the way they land, I get a reading.
And girlfriend, the only way you should be grabbing those beans and throwing them is in a hot pot to make for the holidays.
It's the only way.
Because look, it's so easy to say, but it's harmful.
To you, it's harmful to the Lord, it's detestable.
You understand?
Detestable.
So at face value, you're like, I'm not harming anyone.
In the eyes of God, it's detestable.
We may want to seek out all these other things.
Meanwhile, God is saying, you could talk to me.
I want to have a relationship with you.
Don't forget your first love.
Check this out.
Somebody can spend $60
on a stranger to tell them some hocus pocus future when you could talk to God for free.
Amen.
Now, I'm not judging.
I'm just saying the math isn't math.
That's 60 whole dollars, man.
You could buy a lot of beans with that.
Just saying.
But this is where I want to take it back to the scripture.
The scriptures don't treat it like a quirk.
They treat it
as a serious matter.
They treat it like a doorway.
And God was very clear about this going back to Deuteronomy.
It says, no fortune telling, no sorcery, no interpreting omens, no witchcraft, no casting spells, no mediums, no psychics, no calling up of the dead.
How about this?
No sacrifice.
No sacrifice of your son or your daughter.
Meanwhile, people are aborting and murdering innocent lives in the womb.
It is detestable to God.
This is why I always ask God, teach me to love what you love.
But in the same manner, teach us to hate what you hate.
God does not like murder.
God does not like the killing of innocent babies in the womb.
It is detestable and it is up to us to stand up and be a voice for those who can't speak for themselves.
Amen.
Now notice, it doesn't say not recommended.
Again, it says detestable because every one of these practices is an attempt to access spiritual power without God.
You're trying to get a shortcut.
You're trying to get the detour.
And let me tell you, it's not curiosity that's driving, it's control.
It's saying, I want knowledge
But I don't want surrender.
And that's what God's calling each and every single one of us to surrender.
And not because he's insecure, no, because the spiritual world is real.
It exists.
And the Bible doesn't treat it like a joke.
Let me give you another scripture in Acts chapter 16.
There's a slave girl, and I'll just read for time's sake.
There's a slave girl telling fortunes.
And here's the crazy thing.
She's actually very accurate.
She's predicting things and she's saying true statements about Paul.
But here's the attitude about Paul.
He doesn't say, well, that's cool, that's interesting.
Let me give it a like, let me give it a subscribe.
No, no, what does he do?
He cast that demon out of that little girl in Jesus' name.
Because what he was seeing wasn't entertainment, it was bondage.
And what you see on social media, as far as
I'm just going to say this.
I just want to read the room.
Anybody in here remember Walter Metacala?
No?
I got to see a couple of hands.
You guys are old school.
I love it.
Right?
By the hundreds, people would chime into this channel.
Creepy old dude with a wig.
It was weird.
And so now it goes from, well, this is, this is
Not a good thing.
It's not harming to entertainment when God is calling it bondage.
Our culture repacks darkness all the time.
And it always wants to make it the best training thing.
But let me be honest here.
Maybe in this very room, you're not doing psychic readings.
You're not doing tarot cards.
And if you are,
It's not from a place of judgment, it's from a place of concern that you need to repent.
Throw away those things.
Get rid of them.
Because they are in its nature, demonic.
Now, most Christians in this room aren't looking for psychic readings, but before we all start feeling holy, right?
Let's talk about witchcraft that is respectable and we think it is.
Let me tell you, control wears church clothes too.
It's very easy to manipulate someone.
Maybe the silent treatment, playing the victim, dropping the classic church line, God told me to do this.
What about this?
You get approached.
But by a stranger like God told me, you and I need to get married.
You have to be careful.
But let me tell you, let me help you.
If God really told you, you wouldn't need manipulation.
Why?
Praise God.
Come on, let's praise God.
Because the Holy Spirit convicts, it doesn't scheme.
It convicts people.
It convicts the hearts to follow God, to submit to God, to surrender to God, to repent of the things of the past and leave them in the past and move forward towards Jesus Christ.
Amen.
Can I also say this?
And this is for my church goers, my church people.
It's real easy to be in a place and say,
Well, that's demonic.
Tarot cards, readings, it's demonic.
Psychic readings, it's demonic.
The crystals aligning of the stars and Saturn and Jupiter and Bosole over there.
They're all aligned.
It's demonic, right?
Everything's demonic to a Christian.
But why is it that our unwillingness to forgive is not demonic?
Why?
When we're all called to forgive.
You see, control wears church clothes too.
Some of us don't trust God.
This is what we are.
We're professional over thinkers.
Isn't there a scripture that says don't worry about anything but pray about everything?
And sometimes when we read the scriptures, this is what I call it.
We get biblical dyslexia.
We read it and we're like, okay, worry about everything and pray about nothing.
Amen.
Got it.
And see what the anxiety that you feel often reveals a place where we believe everything depends on us.
Everything depends on him.
Family, if your works, if your effort can't save you, can't save you from an eternity in hell.
And there has to be a dependency in God.
Everything else falls under that dependency in God.
To surrender control.
Because it's so easy to think, if I pray enough, if I serve enough, if I give enough, then in turn, God will bless me.
Can I tell you that's not a relationship?
That's negotiation.
And some of you needed to hear that tonight.
I just need to keep on praying pastor.
I just need, yes, you need to do those things.
You do need to do those things, but it's coming from a place
that you're already blessed as a son or daughter of God, not chasing and fighting for blessings.
Family, God says that his promises are yes and amen.
What we don't like is his terms and his timing because they're out of our control.
And it is impossible to please God without faith.
So again, to the season, the moment that you're in, trust him.
Because God is not a vending machine.
You don't insert good behavior and get blessings in return.
Because that's still control.
And we've all fallen short of this.
Our reputation, our image, looking spiritual, sounding spiritual, protecting reputation.
You know what we look like whenever we try to act holy and mighty to church?
We look like we just got dressed up to the nines in a suit and a gown to an X-ray machine.
That X-ray machine don't care what you look like.
It does not care.
It's going to see everything that the regular S.K.C.
And can I tell you, God sees it all.
God sees our heart.
God sees our intentions.
God sees our desires.
God sees it all.
So when we come to this place,
We come with a focus of worshiping Him, learning to be more like Him, and being transformed by Him.
Amen.
Come on.
And I'm asking you to be careful, family, because control out in the world wears a different outfit, but it's the same idol.
It's the same idol.
Let me tell you a story.
Years ago, last year actually, I went to the airport and I showed up five minutes before we're supposed to board, right?
Five minutes before we're supposed to board.
Don't ever do that, by the way, disclaimer, don't do that.
Show up with plenty of time.
So showed up and just, I guess everybody that day was, we're just gonna show up five minutes before we're supposed to board.
So everyone's going crazy down through TSA,
and everybody's grabbing their tickets, they're looking for their vouchers, they're grabbing the QR code on their phone, they're freaking out, making sure everybody's got 14 water bottles, make sure I got all my kids, make sure I got all my things.
And out of the corner of my eye, I see this kid holding his dad's hand.
He's just...
Right?
He's walking around with his dad, and he's like, you're freaking out, I'm not freaking out.
And they sit down.
And this is what the dad does.
He sets his suitcase and he puts his son on top of the suitcase.
And the kid is swinging his feet.
He's chilling.
And I'm paying attention to him.
And once again, the Holy Spirit gives me this thought.
He says, you know why he's so calm?
No, obviously, Holy Spirit, no.
Why is he calm?
Don't you love that God always asks questions to things he already knows?
But I said, no, I don't.
I don't see what you see.
And this thought comes.
He's not stressed, because he's next to dad.
He doesn't have to worry about the booking.
He doesn't have to worry about the times to be there.
He doesn't have to worry about what the pack.
He doesn't have to worry about the rush.
He doesn't have to worry about the weather.
He doesn't have to worry how to get there.
He doesn't know.
He doesn't have to worry when they got to get there.
Why?
Because he's next to dad.
Isn't it interesting that God has called us to be more like the children.
Innocent.
To be child like, not child-ish.
And whenever we want control, we throw tantrums.
We throw tantrums.
Holy Spirit told me that's what trust looks like.
Family witchcraft tries to control the unseen.
Manipulation tries to control people.
Anxiety tries to control the future.
Performance tries to control God.
They're different methods.
They're the same throne.
The real issue isn't crystals, tarot cards.
The real issue is who sits on the throne of your heart.
Is it you or is it God?
In James chapter four, verse seven, and I'll start to close.
It says, submit yourselves there for the God.
And then the second part of the description says, then resist the devil.
Notice the order.
Most Christians want to rebuke the devil while we're sitting in God's seat.
We need to get off and give him the place that belongs to our king.
He's a king.
He's the king of kings.
Family submission comes first because you can't fight darkness
effectively while refusing to surrender.
And the opposite of control, let me tell you, isn't chaos.
It's trust.
And trust at its core feels scary until you realize this thing.
God has been running the universe just fine without your help.
You weren't there at the beginning.
He didn't want your opinion.
The only thing that's not in the Bible is that your opinion.
As the only thing that's left out, baby, he's been doing just fine.
So since he's been there since the beginning and creation of the heavens and the earth, since he was there and thought of you had you in mind.
I think we could trust him.
I think we should trust him.
Amen.
Come on.
Family, God is so good.
He's so great.
Our five pound brain cannot comprehend how great he is.
We can't understand his mercy.
We can't understand how merciful God is so much so that he would send his son.
He would give his son to down across a brutal death.
And in turn, his son, Jesus Christ, would give his very own life so that you and I could have a way to eternal life.
A relationship with the creator
of this very world.
And we're just talking about His grace.
We haven't talked about His justice.
We haven't talked about His surrender.
We haven't talked about His blessing.
We haven't talked about His hand.
We haven't talked about His love.
We haven't talked about His direction.
We haven't talked about His truth.
We haven't talked about heaven.
There are so many things about God.
And we can't even understand grace.
He's kept the earth spinning.
He's kept the oceans in place.
He's kept history moving.
But somehow we think we know better than God.
Somehow we think we can handle and we know how to handle this situation.
Now the best way you can handle it is by giving it over to Him.
And before I close, there's anybody here that has a spiritual door open.
whether you've dabbled in tarot cards, psychics, horoscopes, crystals, manifestations.
I'm not trying to be dramatic.
I'm trying to be biblical.
Scripture says, don't play with darkness.
And so today, there's going to be a moment where we repent.
And for some of us,
Maybe your issue isn't a cold practice as your issue is control.
Control of outcomes, relationships, reputation.
Family, we can all come to a future tonight and say, I trust God.
Can we all together say, I trust God?
I trust God.
With all of my heart.
I wanna please you God.
With faith.
I wanna start.
Today.
Can we pray?
Father, we come before you in the mighty name of your precious son, Jesus Christ.
And we thank you once more for your words, your message, your transformation.
Father, for those who are in this room and maybe those watching, if you've ever dabbled in the occult and there is an open doorway today, Father,
would come with repented hearts, throwing those things away, casting those things away, destroying those things, because they're now in the past.
Because we believe your word, that they are detestable.
And we wanna please you, God, and only you.
So Father, for those who are in this room, that are ready to repent, Father, I pray that you would forgive them, Lord, because you're faithful to, you would restore them, you would speak to them,
in even clearer ways, Father.
For those who are struggling and have struggled with control of outcomes, relationships, Father, we also repent wholeheartedly God.
We lay it all down right now in the name of Jesus, and we choose to follow you, your voice, and your direction in Jesus' name.
And just for a moment, as all heads are bowed and all eyes are closed,
I wanna make this invitation and we make this invitation before we end any service.
You see, we're talking about control.
And if you're in this room and if you've never stood on the word of God by believing in your heart and confessing with your mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord, because you've been holding on to your life, control has been driving you, you've been holding on to a tight,
When the word of God says that whosoever gives his life will find eternal life in me.
This invitation is for you.
I also want to make an invitation for any prodigal sons and daughters.
As you say, preacher, I've done this.
I've said the prayer.
I've tried, but I've held on to control.
And I'm here now ready to come back to the father's arms.
Whether if you're of the first or second spiritual condition, I'm going to ask you to do something simple.
But yet it's bold.
It's a declaration.
It's saying, God, I'm here.
I'm ready to let go of control and to hold on to you.
I'm gonna ask if you say preacher, will you include me in that prayer to receive Jesus?
Then on the count of three, you would raise your hand.
That way I know who we're praying for.
Are you ready?
Without any hesitation.
One, two, three.
Right here.
God bless you.
Anybody up there?
I saw that hand.
God bless you, sir.
God bless you.
Thank you, Jesus.
God bless you
Neither can the person that's sitting next to you.
No, the words that we're about to say and declare, we're saying and praying them to the living God.
And church family, I'm gonna ask you to pray this alongside those that are ready to make this commitment with Jesus.
All over this place, we're gonna pray and say, Father God.
Let me hear you say, Father God.
I thank you.
And today, I surrender my life.
I surrender control.
And today, I choose to believe your word.
That is true, that whosoever believes in their heart and confess with their mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior would be saved.
Jesus, I believe that you came to this earth.
You died on a cross for a sinner like me.
I ask you to forgive me of all my past and of all my sins as I repent.
wholeheartedly of all my past and sins.
And I ask you to make me new today, to change me, to mold me, to save me, and also fill me with your Holy Spirit that will teach me, mold me, guide me, and help me to serve you and only you.
And I pray this in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
And amen, let's give a shot of praise, my family, come on.